>> James Halliday: Let's learn Vim.
So if you don't already
have Vim installed,
the problem we have at least vi installed.
If you don't have Vim installed,
go ahead and install it.
Also, on some systems, you'll have to
install things like syntax highlighting
and all of the fancy features.
With a package, on a Linux system called
vim-common, so it's good to have that.
If you're on a Mac, I think that
you're probably already good to go.
So why doesn't everybody type vim?
Should see something like this.
>> James Halliday: I have
version 7.4 on debian.
So if you try to type,
this is what happens.
It might take a bit for
it to start logging.
This is because when you go into vi,
you actually start out in this
thing called command mode.
So to go into insert mode, which is a more
familiar kind of editing, you can type i.
So then at the bottom,
it shows INSERT with dashes around it.
And now you can type
basically like normal.
You can even use the arrow keys and
things like that.
But I'll show you a better way
of doing that in a moment.
So you can say, hello
there I am in Insert mode.
So if we wanna save this file,
we're gonna have to give it a file name,
because we just started
them without a file name.
So to do that,
we have to go back into command mode,
which you can do by hitting Escape.
Or you can actually do
it with Ctrl+C as well,
which is useful if you don't wanna
reach all the way up to Escape.
Although, in my system,
I have CapsLock mapped to Escape,
because I use Vim all the time.
So it's very easy for me to hit Escape.
Anyways, once you're in command mode,
you do colon and
then you can do w space the name of
the file that you wanna save as.
>> James Halliday: So I'll save it as
hello., or I'll save it as wow.txt.
There we go.
And you should see a little message
at the bottom similar to that.
If you wanna quit now that we've
saved our file, you can do,
in command mode which you can
always get to by hitting Escape.
You can do :q and that exits.
If you want to now open that file again,
you can do vi or vim,
the name of the file and
you can make a change.
>> James Halliday: If you
wanna do both saving and
quitting in one operation you can kind
of combine those commands by doing
:wq,
>> James Halliday: Which saves and quits.
If you want to do things like,
maybe you made some changes.
Maybe your cat walked on your keyboard and
put a bunch of characters in your program.
I have a cat now that does that a lot.
It loves to stand on my keyboard.
If you just wanna quit
without saving the changes,
if you try to do :q, vim will tell you
you haven't written your changes out.
So you have to tell vim explicitly,
:q!, which is, I just wanna quit.
I don't care about the changes,
throw them away, which it does.
Now, if I open it agin see
that those changes are done.
So to recap,
insert mode you can go into by hitting i.
There are different ways that
I'll go into that you can
go into insert mode with variations.
But i to go into insert mode, Escape to go
from insert mode back into command mode.
In command mode, :q quits, :w writes.
Also, if you make a change, you can do :w.
If you've already specified a file name,
then you don't have to
specify the file name again.
So saves to the same file.
And :wq writes and quits, :q quits.
:q!, quits discarding changes.
Also if you've typed vim already and
you wanna load a file that already exists,
you can do :o and the name of that file.
>> James Halliday: There we are.
>> James Halliday: Yep.